Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org
Hear now the song of Troy.
and of the years
the sea would not forget.
There was a city once...
Land ahoy!
Walls higher than
any siege tower.
thick enough that no
battering ram could crack them.
A city that should
never have fallen.
crowned in gold.
its walls raised
by the hands of gods.
Prince of Troy. Paris.
set his heart on Helen.
wife of Menelaus.
king of Sparta.
a woman already claimed.
He carried her away
to have her as his own.
And so the kingdoms of
Greece rose as one.
For ten long years Greece
laid siege to Troy.
Spears broke. but
their walls did not.
Among the Greeks
walked a man who carried
no sword sharper than his mind.
He knew what the
others could not see:
that Troy would not be broken.
It would have to be deceived.
Odysseus. king of Ithaca.
patient as the tide.
cunning as a fox in winter.
A decades long war had ended.
but for Odysseus.
the longest journey
was only just beginning.
The King!
King Odysseus!
Our men are gone.
but Troy is fallen.
and our battle is won.
Where are we going?
Home.
To my kingdom.
To my son. My wife.
You may join me.
Be an advisor
in my court.
For your bravery in this
terrible war. I will ensure
you will want for nothing
for the rest of your life.
Thank you. my King.
It would be my honor.
The journey will not be easy.
I will swim if I must.
but I will get home.
Trojans!
If the gods are willing.
Tell me. O Muse.
the man of many devices.
who wandered full
many ways after he had
sacked the great
citadel of Troy.
Home. then.
Lest I have not honored the gods
enough to receive
the reward I deserve.
Greetings. Odysseus.
The good man.
Goddess on high.
Clever. maybe.
Clever is better than good.
Not just clever.
Brutal. decisive.
and ingenious.
Hiding your soldiers
in the gift of a wooden horse.
your Trojan horse.
Taking the city by surprise
from the inside out.
Your greatest work.
It did what it was made to do.
But I cannot look behind.
As any craftsman
worth his salt. I pray
that my greatest
work lies ahead.
Perhaps it does.
So home. then. Ithaca.
To your wife.
Your city.
Yes. the only
journey worth the fight.
Are you coming with me. Athena?
Or is there another
reason for this visit?
I come to bring you a warning.
The gods.
they are fickle. Odysseus.
They will not make your
journey home an easy one.
Your trials will be
their entertainment.
They know now that
you are a clever man.
They are jealous.
They will use this against
you to show their power.
Curse me or bless me.
Goddess on high.
But be quick about it.
In due time.
And so begins your odyssey.
And the game of the gods.
Then pray for me. goddess.
For I must reach home.
For my kingdom.
My everything.
My son. My wife.
My world will be gone.
I am looking for men.
A crew for a dangerous journey.
One the gods themselves
may turn their will against.
Once I am home.
as king of Ithaca.
I assure you each will
receive a suitable reward.
You will never want for anything
for the rest of your lives.
You have the word
of the king himself.
A generous offer and reward.
But are you as
good as your word?
Polites!
You look a little
bit past your prime.
-By the gods!
-Old man.
After all this time.
All this time and you still
haven't gotten any better
at motivational speeches.
Absolute crickets
from you as well.
This is a man who has saved
my life on numerous occasions.
A debt we have both repaid
each other more than once
in a war that has lasted
more than five years.
Although it's closer to ten now.
But these days.
I am much better collecting
scars than I am glory.
But. you will find plenty
of much younger.
probably not as bright men
more than willing to join you.
But probably not here.
sipping goblets in
the middle of the day.
And the rest here.
well. they know not
the true cost of war.
though they may be eager.
-As once we were.
-As we once were.
Listening to our fathers
and our grandfathers stories.
And just more than
willing to prove ourselves.
Can I trust them?
About as much as
you can trust me.
All I know is that what's
waiting for you back in Ithaca.
now that is your reward.
And you deserve it. too.
But for the rest of us...
Join me.
I need men who I can trust.
Men with
experience in battle.
No. no. no. I will not be
going to any battle.
Or any wars.
Ever again.
I am unpersuadable.
I cannot be persuaded.
Did I mention the gold?
Well. did I mention
unpersuaded?
When do we start?
As soon as we recruit two more.
-Two more?
-Yes.
-Okay. Let's go.
-Let's do this.
Alkimos the Navigator.
From what I heard. he was
the one that saved a ship
of fishermen from a cyclone.
Really?
I've heard of you.
King Odysseus.
What have you heard?
That you. sacker of cities.
son of Laertes.
are favored by the gods.
Not all the gods.
One or two. Maybe less.
You survived the Trojan War.
You're a king.
The King of Ithaca.
I have a family
that comes from Ithaca.
I haven't seen them
since I was little.
You know. my king--
I'm not king today.
But if you help me
get home. I will be.
I'm a good navigator.
But you mentioned gold.
Did I?
Oh. You did. Yes.
You mentioned gold.
He mentioned gold.
Hmm.
I don't seek gold.
I'm bored.
Bored of fishing
boats filled with old men
with putrid smelling cargo.
I seek adventure.
New shores.
Like in the stories.
Stories about you.
Then join me.
and we will make stories
that they will never forget.
And I promise you. it will
be anything but boring.
And once we reach Ithaca.
you can join my guard
and help me protect
our fair kingdom.
My king.
Now. how are you at fighting?
I can handle my own.
But if you want a
force to be reckoned with.
you want to
recruit Eurylochus.
I've never seen another
man fight quite like he has.
We'll pay him a visit next.
So what say you. Eurylochus?
I have killed a lot of
men to protect my home.
War has plagued our
country for many years.
How are you at sea?
I'm a fast swimmer. and
even faster with a sword.
Hm. Is that so?
Hm.
But now that
the war is over.
I've found work at a
vineyard up the road.
The owner. he treats me well.
And his daughter.
Talia. she's...
I just don't know if I can
commit to a journey this long.
You will be in Ithaca
before sundown two days hence.
We have to be.
And if you decide to
stay in our fair kingdom.
you will live a life
of ease in Ithaca.
And once there.
she can join you.
If you teach me
how to be as fast
as you. my king
Odysseus. then I'm in.
And as I promised...
We need gold.
You said we need to
be to Ithaca in two days.
Yes. I have a plan.
But you must trust me.
I'm with you to
the end. my king.
Or thereabouts.
From Troy. Odysseus
launched his journey home
with 12 ships and 600 men.
At home in Ithaca.
Odysseus's dear wife Penelope
dreams of her love
bearing the brutal seas
to find his way home to her.
Odysseus?
God's above.
You've shown me Odysseus lives.
Now bring him home.
Bring him home now.
or these lips
shall never again
speak your names.
A growing boy needs food.
A boy needs many things.
mother. but I am not a boy.
Not any...
Mother.
I've seen him. Telemachus.
I've seen your father.
You're bleeding.
You must sit.
No. my son.
We must stand and fight.
What have you seen?
A vision.
A message from the gods.
Troy burns.
Your father. he is triumphant.
He is coming home. but it
may not be fast enough.
Ithaca is vulnerable now.
Now that the war is over.
Odysseus must return to
reclaim the throne. otherwise
another can claim this
kingdom as his own.
Your father would rather
die than let that happen.
He will return.
He must.
And in his absence.
I am the man of this house.
and I say that we...
You will be a man
soon enough. my love. You will.
But you cannot be king.
Not yet.
And therein lies our fight.
Each day that your father
is away. others become
more willing to claim
this kingdom as their own.
If he does not return.
I will not also lose you.
So we must be strong. my son.
Together. we must
be like your father.
Smart and resourceful.
And protect this
kingdom without violence.
Clever.
So clever as to make
the gods jealous.
Whether we want it or not.
the heavens will continue to
move without Odysseus here
by our side where he belongs.
If he does not return soon
after victory
has been declared.
then by law he will have
abandoned his duties as king.
And a suitor. any suitor.
may lay claim to this house.
and to the crown of Ithaca.
And to you.
The law only reaches so far.
When they come.
and come they will.
we must be ready.
And I am ready to fight for you
and for father and the kingdom.
Son. this is not going
to be a sword fight.
Or even a fight of fists.
This will be a fight
of words and propriety.
We need to buy him time.
Keep the suitors busy.
Their bellies full
and distracted.
Now come and honor me
like you do him.
The war is over now.
But our battle
is just beginning.
Goddess Athena...
Help us.
I pray.
But help Odysseus.
Help my father.
Please.
The mighty storm
that struck Odysseus
ravaged the sea for ten days.
taking them far off course.
After battling
the storms at sea.
Odysseus has arrived at
his home in Ithaca...
or so he thought.
This is not Ithaca. Athena!
This is another one
of the gods' cruel jokes.
I must get home.
I will get home.
Penelope.
Sweet Penelope.
I will come home.
Look at you keeping
step with the gods.
Athena.
I am many leagues off course.
I'm only two days
journey from Ithaca.
Please.
Spirit me home to Ithaca.
great goddess.
You know that I cannot.
It is not within
my power to do so.
But think. Odysseus.
Perhaps there is a reason
that you are not yet home.
The gods have another plan.
I see.
I am here to help.
I can offer you help three
times along your journey.
Three gifts.
Only three?
'Tis all I am permitted.
I am helping because
I see myself
in your clever mind and
your tactician's brain.
Your glory in
the Trojan War honors me.
And that is why I will help you.
I am flattered. goddess.
I must decline.
I am offended.
Odysseus.
Refusing a gift from the gods?
From Athena herself.
If you cannot spirit
me home then please
understand I must ask for
help only when I need it.
When all hope is lost. my wits
abandon me and death beckons.
In this moment I will
honor your generosity
for I know the
value of godly gifts.
Then you must know even now
dogs are sniffing
at your house
and at your wife.
The gods are testing
your cleverness. Odysseus.
Then I pray the
gods do not stall me
any longer than
they already have.
Go. hero.
Honor me and prove your worth.
Get home.
No matter what horrors the
gods place upon your path.
The opportunity here
is too great to pass up.
A kingdom. a crown.
and even the queen herself
all free for the taking.
And it should be easy
enough owing to propriety
and Grecian law.
All suitors
must be taken seriously.
And I will be the first.
Ha!
The early bird gets the kingdom.
She'll have no choice
but to honor my demands.
All of my demands.
Antinous just said
the most awful things.
Threatening to take the crown.
our house. and you!
Then it has begun.
We must be on our
guard. Telemachus.
Always polite and inviting.
But on our guard.
But on our guard!
Perilous winds
take their toll on the voyagers
who now take shore on
a small island. rich in gold.
Is this part of
the plan. Lord Odysseus?
Indeed. Eurylochus.
Now stay close.
and your lips closed.
I don't quite understand
what this has to do with gold.
We're going to retrieve gold.
My gold that was
stolen by a cyclops.
He's the son of Poseidon.
God of the sea.
A real cyclops?
Why didn't you tell us sooner?
They eat people. so I've heard.
My brave crew...
Alkimos. you wanted adventure.
Here it is.
Eurylochus. you wanted to stay
alive in a cave with a Cyclops.
You must learn to be faster.
And Polites.
now you wanted gold.
Yes. this cyclops has
been hoarding gold for years.
Mine and others.
And it's that gold that's
going to help us get a ship.
He's been terrorizing this
mountainside for many years.
It's time we return the favor.
Today. our journey
begins with a cyclops.
Or it ends before it begins.
Now who's with me?
My king.
Help! Help!
He... He ate him.
Do as I say when I say.
then we will win the day.
All right. what's the plan?
We'll circle the
base of the mountain.
Go inside.
Stay close. and downwind.
Cyclops. he can smell
us nearly a league away.
Hold. hold. hold.
At Troy. during the
war. you were there?
I sure was.
I barely survived.
and I probably wouldn't have
if it weren't for Odysseus.
Saved me from
an entire garrison.
Picked them off one by one.
Hiding in the shadows.
which is a pretty big
feat for him. considering
he's a big bastard.
I've only heard stories.
Legends. really.
Well. not everything
you hear is true.
Only half of what
I just said was true.
Is he as good a man as they say?
He's a great man. though
he'd never admit it.
But out of humility.
He's a man who
values many virtues.
But the one he values above
all others is cleverness.
You see. a good man engenders
himself to friends. family.
A clever man.
a clever man survives.
Quickly. now.
Gods willing. we will. too.
Keep your eyes open and
your wits about you. man.
Odysseus. you know
no-ones actually entered
the Cyclops cave and
lived to tell the tale.
Not until today they don't.
He will be busy
with his guests.
This is our chance.
We sneak in.
find the treasure.
take what we can carry.
stay quiet.
get out the same way.
Stay with me.
Stay low.
But how do we find the treasure?
Where does the cyclops
even keep its treasure?
It smells like death.
What better place to
hide your gold than in
a place that smells so bad
that no one dares enter?
Use your nose.
Follow its direction.
Is... Is somebody here?
I smell...
I smell men.
I smell your fear.
You can't...
You can't hide for long
and Polyphemus.
the son of Poseidon.
is still hungry.
There.
The smell of the
worst is that way.
Move. move.
Let's move.
Quiet.
Holy gold.
Reward.
Rewards for good men.
Shh.
Okay. quickly.
Take everything you can.
Actually. only what you can
carry. just like Odysseus said.
Wait. where is Odysseus?
Odysseus is gone.
You've come for my gold!
Shh!
-Thieves!
-Okay. take cover!
Thieves. who are you?
We're nobody!
Grab the treasure! Run!
Go! I'll keep him busy!
We fight with you.
my king!
Eurylochus!
Odysseus!
Polites. help! Ah!
No! No!
You will die. foul beast!
For Eurylochus!
Nobody?
It calls for help.
No one will come!
It calls out for nobody.
No one will come.
May the gods bless
you. Eurylochus.
and speed you
through the underworld
as quickly as
the gods will permit.
Now. go.
Grab the treasure.
The son of Poseidon will
not lick his wounds long.
Go!
-Only take what we need.
Yes. enough for a boat.
Provisions and no more.
Okay. here's a bit of gold.
There's a bit of this...
-Hurry!
-Yes. grab that.
That's expensive. I like that.
Okay. and...
Okay. let's go.
-Go!
-I got it. I got it. I got it.
Charie!
And greetings to the
great house of Odysseus.
Greetings to you. traveler.
Your voice seems so...
familiar.
But our house is
in no condition...
Aye. aye.
Well met. my lord Telemachus.
Telemachus.
Apologies. Apologies.
I am Antinous.
And I come bearing gifts.
The gift of my protection.
A gracious home.
A kingly estate. indeed.
Ready our ship. men.
We leave port immediately.
-My king.
Come to wish us farewell?
I have.
And I come bearing a gift.
A bag of wind
to speed you along your journey.
Perhaps if you'd
accepted my offer of help.
and asked for stronger
and faster ships.
you would not need it.
Or you would already
be closer to home.
My ship.
I would not trust
a boat from the gods.
Who knows if the previous owners
seek revenge and come find me?
And what of the previous
owners of this treasure?
My ship.
My treasure.
My men.
What's left of them.
By Olympus.
One of the gods
speaking to Odysseus.
Gifts.
Gifts from the gods themselves.
It's a generous gift.
And I accept your bag of wind.
But it is not one of your
three gifts until I use it.
Why not use it now?
I will use it.
But I will use it when I must.
The gifts of a god
come with a heavy price.
Hurry home. son of Laertes.
Honor me.
Rewards.
Odysseus!
Was that...
Athena herself.
Come to wish us a farewell.
Could she help us?
Help us get there faster.
I would give my life
many times over if it
meant getting home
sooner to my loved ones.
But the gods play
dangerous games with men.
They could spirit us home
with just a mere thought.
Or the breath from their lungs.
Or they could smite us where we
stand and send us to our dooms.
To them. it's all the same.
That's why we
must tread lightly.
Especially with the ones
who seem the most generous.
And what of that?
Is that a gift?
A reward?
No. it's nothing.
It's a good luck charm.
Now. Polites. let's go home.
A guest in my home.
Aye. but not just any guest.
Antinous. my queen.
At your service.
Well met. Antinous.
And to what do we
owe this generous visit?
I come to pay my respects
to the great Odysseus himself.
And to those he left behind.
He will return. He...
And we accept that respect
in the spirit
that it was given.
Thank you. Antinous.
And I am here to confirm
that this home is safe.
Safe from any who might think
to encroach upon its sanctity.
And to offer my
allegiance and my duty to you
and yours
and to this kingdom.
And to offer my services
to you
as husband and father...
and king.
There is no need for that.
Or for you. My father--
You'll forgive my son.
He can be rather spirited.
Much like his father.
A generous proposal. indeed.
But we have only just met.
Perhaps we can get
better acquainted first.
A fair suggestion.
Right and good.
But I have to admit.
my gracious queen.
I am famished.
And my lips are parched from
my long journey to your door.
Yes. Refreshments might
do us all some good.
Telemachus.
I could use your help.
Take your time.
I'm in no rush.
Mother. what are you doing?
My duty. my son.
And I expect you to do the same.
Antinous is our guest.
Antinous is a
lecherous fool who...
Mother. I--
There will be
other fools. son.
He is merely the first.
It's just like I warned you.
Every day Ithaca
goes without a king
and our house without
our dearest love.
we edge closer
and closer to chaos.
While he is here. the others in
waiting will keep
their distance.
Concerned about their chances.
making assumptions...
Peace is kept.
But mother. I don't think...
We keep--
We keep him distracted.
And we buy your father time.
And while we wait
and be polite and
kowtow to that.
any peace we buy
is not guaranteed.
It is all we can do.
For now.
Now. come on.
We mustn't keep our
honored guest waiting.
Steady there. Alkimos.
With any luck. we'll be home
in a day and a half.
My king.
A storm's coming.
Keep it steady. Alkimos.
Put your back into it.
Polites. grab those lines.
We're going to need them.
Poseidon's bad breath.
Poseidon's breath?
Hot air and spit.
That's Poseidon's bad breath.
He must have learned of
the mark I left on his son.
And his ocean is
pushing us off course.
Look. there.
The current.
It turns against us.
Yes.
Adjust your heading.
Into the wind.
-The wind?
-Yes.
My king...
Poseidon's strength is strongest
in the water and the current.
But if we catch the wind
we can use it as our guide.
Polites. fortify the mast
and the sail.
We cannot afford to be
any further from our goal.
My king. the ship...
She can't hold it.
She will do what
we tell her to do.
The wind going one way
and the current the other.
I'm afraid we're
going to be torn apart.
If we catch the wind.
tread lightly.
We can crest the waves
instead of wrestling with them.
Yes.
We must tread lightly if we
want to keep pace with those.
Spit all you want. Poseidon!
I will not be swayed.
Not today. not ever.
Odysseus...
The waves!
The waves. they're coming
right for us.
We've got
to keep her on course!
Try harder.
Come on!
Come on. oh gods. Punish me!
Punish me!
The sea.
she means to turn us over!
-Odysseus.
-Hold tight.
Hold tight. men.
We can steer her.
We'll steer her through this.
And through the underworld.
if need be and back.
We're not strong enough.
We're not going to make it.
The sea shall eat us all.
The wind.
The wind's too strong.
We're going to lose the sail.
No. No. it's not too strong.
It's the strength we need.
Hand me those lines.
Pull the oar.
Pull with all your might!
Pull!
If we lose the oar.
we're done for.
If we do not act now. we die.
Pull the oar!
Pull it!
That's it. That's it!
The wind is the
strength we need.
It's working.
Odysseus.
Wind.
Wind and water.
They are nothing.
They are nothing
when Ithaca waits for us.
I'm coming home.
I am coming home.
So then...
Queen Penelope.
Antinous.
Do you have need of more food?
Or drink perhaps?
Both. Please.
Your wine.
It has a lovely bouquet.
A noble vintage indeed.
A captivating aroma.
And sweet acidity.
It is rich.
And full bodied.
Just like you.
You do flatter me. Antinous.
Maybe I do.
But...
I worry...
The time for flattery
has passed.
There will be other suitors
lining up at your door.
And soon...
They will be much
less patient men than I.
And after the suitors
will come the looters.
And then the troublemakers.
And I will be unable
to protect you.
Unless?
Unless I am your husband.
Unless I am king.
I would hate to see anything
unfortunate befall you...
Or your son in such
rudderless times as these.
It is time to make
your choice. Penelope.
Before someone makes it for you.
Alkimos. get some beeswax.
Focus repairs on
the prow of the ship.
That storm really took
a bite out of our hide.
But we need the ship
to have her speed back.
Yes. my king.
The sea herself added another
day and a half to our journey
that we do not have to spare.
The woes of my
heart upon this sea.
What storm do you
think was worse?
The one we just sailed through.
or the one that is on your brow?
The storm to come.
The journey ahead.
The journey home.
Yes.
Polites. is I must get home
no matter what the cost.
I must.
I wonder if the costs
already paid.
No. Polites...
The costs were paid
both here and back in Troy.
With flesh and blood.
And this.
This is our reward. is it?
More hardship.
More storms.
Rough seas.
I cannot control the fates.
Nor the seas.
You forget that
I've seen you
perform miracles
before. Odysseus.
Miracles even
the gods couldn't choose.
If this was my kingdom. yes.
But this is not my kingdom.
Back home in my kingdom--
By the gods of the sea!
The sea has teeth!
By the gods!
Charybdis!
It's another one of Poseidon's
weapons of vengeance.
You didn't stop Poseidon.
You just made him more angry.
Alkimos. come steer.
Steer us around
the outside of it.
My king. the repairs
aren't finished yet.
Without them. we won't
be able to make that turn.
It will be almost impossible.
I will make that turn.
I will.
The sea!
It has swallowed so many.
but I had no idea
it had a mouth!
My king. the winds!
We're losing speed!
Odysseus. what do we do?
We will not let it
dissuade us off our course.
Push. Alkimos!
Push. Polites!
Push!
We will ride the wind
and the waves to freedom!
Aye. my king!
Odysseus!
Look!
By the gods!
It follows!
Use the gift. son of Laertes!
The gift!
The gift the goddess
gave to you!
If it can help us. use it!
Soon. loyal Polites!
Use it now!
I will not let
Poseidon's pet beat us.
He will not have the glory of
knowing I took the easy way out.
Move!
He is right.
You should use it.
It is too early in the game
for you to die. Odysseus.
Your pride will be your ruin.
You cannot win
this without help.
I can beat this beast on my own.
I do not need
your help. goddess.
I will get home in
spite of you...
and all the gods!
I will waste no
more breath on you.
Not when it can be used
for another purpose.
My king...
Who the hell is it
you're talking to back there?
I will beat this beast
without your help. goddess.
The whirlpool!
It's coming!
Better hold on to something.
Hold on. men.
It's not just any whirlpool.
It's a creature of Poseidon.
And if it's hungry.
we must feed it.
We must feed it
until its belly is full.
Until it chokes!
Come on!
What do you mean feed it?
Feed it with what?
Quick!
Or we've already lost.
Yes. what the storm
has taken from us.
Grab the ropes.
Anything. planks. barrels.
Grab anything you can.
Absolute madness.
You went mad. old man.
Feed this beast.
Fill its belly.
And if not...
I will choke it myself
with my own body.
Looks like the sea must eat.
The fishing traps.
Yes. the provisions. Now!
The fishing traps?
What are we going to eat?
We don't need them.
We'll be home in two days.
Or we'll be dead
trying to protect it.
Choke on it!
Choke on all of it!
It's working!
Now what we need is distance.
Move!
Hear me. gods!
I am strong enough
to fight my own battles.
Damn you! Damn you!
Gods.
Please. please help us.
Father...
Father. why have
you abandoned us?
Odysseus is alive.
Who... who are you?
Save your breath. child.
Do not fear me.
How have you appeared like that?
Is this some magician's trick?
A phantasm?
Please do not vex me. spirit!
Athena hears your prayers.
And you must hear my words.
Your father has
not abandoned you.
And neither have the gods.
I am doing all that I can.
Never before have I
seen a man fight for his home
so boldly as
your father does in war.
He honors me.
And for that. I am
doing all that I can.
But now. my child.
I must ask the same of you.
You must protect
your father's house
at all costs. from
within and from without.
You must be prepared
to fight in war. yes.
But you must also be careful.
watchful. and cunning.
It is time for boys
to become men.
I see Odysseus in you.
Perhaps it will be enough.
Yes.
Be vigilant. Telemachus.
You will know it when
the moment comes.
And then you
will strike...
for your mother.
for your father. and for me.
A toast. then.
A toast to our health.
and in gratitude to
my most gracious hosts.
Who. if I might
speak freely.
deserve a king who would
protect them at home.
and not seek glory elsewhere.
And I most certainly
could be that king.
A kingdom so fine
deserves a ruler
who would never
think to abandon it.
This is the king's house.
Odysseus's house.
My father's house.
Ah.
And where exactly is
your father. Telemachus?
I don't see him.
All I see instead
is a home deserted.
a kingdom undefended.
vulnerable.
and of the king
himself some stories.
The poets are talking
out on the street.
Some say he's lost at sea.
Others. that he dallies
with Cersei herself.
And I myself have heard
nothing but stories of
monsters and treasure
and violence
and such bloodshed.
Whatever stories you've heard.
you should know this:
while my father is gone
and in his absence.
I am bound to
defend what is his.
Well. if it's a fight
you're looking for. boy.
Honorable Antinous.
Strong words do harm
to the digestion.
And violence is an ill
guest in this house or any.
Please.
Of course. my lady.
Of course.
But I wouldn't need to
be a guest if my queen
would take this suitor
to be her husband.
I fear I cannot remarry.
What?
I cannot remarry
until I finish this cloak
I've been
making for my son.
It is only custom and proper.
A parting gift for my
only flesh and blood.
Before my duties as queen
to my new king
fill my days and my hand.
Indeed.
Now far be it from me
to rush propriety.
And I surely look forward
to viewing the finished product.
Must the entire sea move
against Odysseus. Lord Poseidon?
Behavior from such a god
seems small and petty.
This isn't petty.
This is revenge!
For my son. for what
Odysseus did to my son.
Your son. Lord Poseidon. was
harming and murdering innocents.
Perhaps he will
think twice next time.
Enjoy your pet hero
while you can. Athena.
With your gifts.
Your meddling matters not.
Odysseus will not
leave my ocean alive.
Polites. how is she?
Is she patched up yet?
She's looking pretty good.
Pretty good.
a little bit more...
beeswax and
she'll be good to go.
Good. good.
Set a course for home. Alkimos.
Yes. my king.
For home. and for our rewards.
Gold.
Yes. yes. indeed. Polites.
Indeed.
And just on that.
by the way. I've been meaning
to tell you. meaning
to ask about...
Odysseus!
A monster!
The Scylla!
Poseidon's lap dog!
Alkimos. no!
Odysseus!
What do we do?
We try to outrun it.
Yes... Yes. faster!
Faster!
No!
No! There's not enough wind
at our back!
Not enough wind to fight!
Only the monster at our heels!
Damn my pride!
Athena! Athena!
I'm asking for help!
Another gift. then?
Goddess!
We need weapons!
Ask. and it will be yours.
Strategy. And sight.
Sight.
That will be my second gift.
To see what is
right in front of you.
What is right in front of me?
What? What does that mean?
My ship.
You ask for a weapon.
and yet you sail one.
Yes.
Why didn't I see that before?
The ship is a weapon.
Sometimes you are so
worried about what is ahead.
that you fail to see what
is directly in front of you.
Take heed. Odysseus.
You will defeat the
monsters that surround you.
Odysseus?
Odysseus. you're steering us...
You steer us right towards it!
Right towards the
jaws of the beast!
Not the jaws!
It's belly!
We'll run it through
with the prow!
The ship will be our sword!
Yes! Yes!
Odysseus. it's
not going to work!
We've got to turn her
around or we're done for!
The current is too strong!
It's not working!
She's going to eat us alive!
Hold fast. Polites!
We need momentum!
I'm trying!
That's the only
belly-full you'll get today!
Yes. Odysseus!
Yes!
Come on. Telemachus.
You must be ready to fight!
Or we'll lose everything.
Come home. father.
Quickly.
The cloak you make
for me is nearly finished.
And there are unwanted
guests in your house.
About the cloak...
Alas. my son.
I fear there is still
so much work to be done.
This cloak may take
many days to finish.
You're undoing what you've done.
If only I could.
Mother. you've
done nothing wrong.
It's just...
What?
Undoing the cloak every night.
Sometimes clever
is better than good.
I just pray it buys
us the time he needs.
And if it doesn't. then
I will be ready to fight.
No one is taking
this kingdom from us.
No one.
And I will be ready to fight.
Odysseus?
Odysseus.
Treacherous waters ahead.
That's treacherous
waters indeed.
It means we're getting
close to land now.
Huh.
That's the first good
thing I've heard all day.
We must stay clear
of those rocks.
And I have less
than a day before...
Before someone claims
what is rightfully yours.
I know. my king.
I know.
I am no king here.
There is only one
king in the ocean.
And I hold no favor
with him now.
Odysseus...
Can you hear that?
-Music?
-No.
No. not the songs.
The sirens. no.
No.
Polites. no. No!
Protect yourself!
No!
-Sirens.
-Not the sirens!
They call to me.
No!
Cover your ears!
Protect yourself. Polites!
They speak to me.
Cover your ears!
Protect yourself!
They want me to get my reward.
Rewards for a good man.
No. No!
They speak to me.
I hear the song.
It's in my head!
They speak to me.
Telemachus is the
real problem here.
The woman?
I can handle.
But the boy?
Any loyal dog would
struggle obeying a new master.
And I wouldn't blame him.
But once this is all mine.
he will still be a
thorn in my side.
And his mother falling
into line won't help.
No.
He's going to require
a far stronger hand.
It's not a matter of if.
Simply put. the question
becomes do I take care
of Telemachus now. or do
I take care of him later?
It's like my father used to say.
Only a fool leaves
today's jobs until tomorrow.
Well. Antinous is no fool.
Neither will this loyal dog.
No.
This loyal dog will be
ready for you. Antinous.
My reward...
Speak to me.
Odysseus!
I need to get my rewards!
What?
What are you doing?
My rewards. my gold!
They're speaking to me!
-Not when we're so close!
-Yes!
No! Just pass the rocks.
and we're nearly home!
They speak to me!
Polites!
Wake up!
Take this beeswax!
Put it in your ears!
We must block their song!
We must block
the siren's song!
Block it!
We cannot hear them!
We've got to stay clear of them!
We've got to stay away!
Steady on the course...
until can't hear them!
Steer away...
Steer away.
That song...
Oh...
I want to hear that song.
Odysseus!
-That song...
-Odysseus!
Odysseus!
Don't listen to them!
Here!
No. the wax!
The wax!
The song...
Odysseus! We're leaving!
We're getting out of here!
I want to hear that song.
They know nothing but death!
-They want to help us.
-They do not.
-They do want to help us.
-They don't want to help us.
-Polites...
-Think of your family!
-Polites. they want to help us.
-No. no. no!
They will not!
Polites. they know
how to get home.
We've come this far!
-Polites...
-We've come this far!
-They only know death!
-They have wisdom!
They only know death!
Their song is wisdom.
Hey! Snap out of it!
They want to help us.
They know what
lies beneath the waves.
I must hear this song.
Song of the sirens.
What a beautiful song.
Huh.
They want to help us get home.
They do.
They have knowledge.
Polites. they have wisdom.
-Odysseus...
-Their beautiful song.
I must hear it.
Odysseus. they know
nothing but death.
They have knowledge.
They know nothing but death.
Think of home.
The song.
No. Polites. we
must steer towards them.
Polites. they want to help us!
No. they don't!
Yes!
Their song!
I want to hear their song...
Please. Polites.
They sing for me!
Odysseus!
Hear me. Odysseus!
You must not listen
to them. Odysseus!
I can only hear their song.
Odysseus!
No!
You can't hear me
over their song!
Odysseus!
You will die if you don't
make it past these rocks!
And if you cannot hear me.
I cannot help you!
I cannot help you.
Odysseus!
Odysseus. no!
Polites. we must
steer away from the rocks.
Please steer away from them.
We must get to Ithaca.
They will give us
a hero's welcome.
A king's welcome.
Damn the sirens.
And damn these seas. too.
Polites. please forgive me.
You have saved
both of our lives.
It was an honor. my king.
But now our course is set.
You are almost home.
And that is your reward.
But mind. my king.
my reward is treasure.
You must listen to me.
You don't understand.
No. no. no. I do understand.
You have a gift from the gods.
And Ithaca. now
that is your reward.
Now I am in pursuit of mine.
You said. your words.
What do you mean?
Gifts for good men.
Did you not?
Please. you do not understand.
No. I do understand. It's you
that doesn't understand.
I saw Athena
herself give it to you.
-I saw her.
-No. no.
A gift from the gods. Reward.
No. it's not a gift.
-Oh. it's not a gift?
-No. it's not.
I see it.
I see. clever Polites.
loyal Polites.
worthy of scars Polites.
but not worthy of a gift
from the gods. is that it?
Please listen to me.
Exactly like Troy. is it?
Exactly like Troy.
I am going to take
what is owed to me.
For good men.
No. no. do not take that.
Do not take that!
Bring it back.
You do not understand.
-No. stop.
-I do understand.
Stop!
Polites. please. please.
My King. I am only opening this
because this is
what is owed to me.
-No.
-Yes.
Athena.
Athena. please.
Athena will not
save you. Odysseus.
We will finish this war
you started.
And it will end with your blood
filling my oceans.
Perhaps the fates are more
generous than we thought.
Athena.
Even the winds had mercy
on you and brought you home.
Reward. Reward.
Great Odysseus finally returned
to the shores of Ithaca.
Ithaca.
Telemachus...
Penelope!
The great Odysseus...
At the end of his ropes.
No.
Not yet.
Not quite.
Look.
There. Your Majesty.
Your people are in panic.
Perhaps there is no more
glory left for you here.
Penelope and Telemachus
are doing all they can.
But your city is
being taken by force.
My world burns.
And the gods abandon me
with my hands tied.
I can offer no more aid.
and you know this.
By breathing wind
into your sails.
strategizing your
boat as a weapon.
and giving you a bag of wind.
your three gifts have been used.
But great goddess.
I never opened the bag of winds.
It was Polites.
Polites opened the bag of winds.
Not I.
A wrinkle.
Perhaps it is enough
for the gods to allow me
to aid you one last
time on your journey.
I have one boon.
One gift left.
I just pray I don't
have to use it.
Yes. but you cannot
just go home. Odysseus.
Not anymore.
The people of Ithaca.
they are a mob.
They run through the
streets hungry for blood.
They would have yours.
You will not make it past them.
You will not even make it
to your front door.
And if you did. the suitors
would be waiting for you.
In disguise.
In disguise to hide
my face in my own kingdom.
I shall dress as a
wandering beggar
and learn how things stand.
What will you do.
Great Odysseus?
I will defend my home.
My family.
I must stop this
before it's too late.
Or even if it's as you say.
there's no glory
left for either of us.
Finish the game. Odysseus.
And finish it well.
For not all gods
have abandoned you.
And Poseidon still
thirsts for revenge.
We must do something. Mother.
No.
I will not let them kill you.
You must get
control of the city.
We will wait until
your father returns.
Rioting!
Looting and violence.
and you want to wait for
Odysseus to return?
Do you still think
you'll have a kingdom by then?
Without a king.
my queen.
the city succumbs to
its more primal urges.
I will take your hand
and the crown with it.
And all will be well
when King Antinous reigns.
It is time. my lord.
Time enough indeed
for the final challenge.
No more games. loyal widow.
Being king is no game.
And only the worthy
wear our crown
and complete this final task.
Only our king can fire an
arrow through those axe blades.
And only our king has done it.
So are you our king. Antinous?
Or does Odysseus. even in
his absence. carry the crown?
You're not worth of such
a great feat!
I challenge you for
my Father's kingdom!
Snake in the grass!
Stay in your place. pup!
Telemachus!
But if I must. I will
teach you to keep your place!
The crown will never be yours!
Snake in the grass!
Interloper! Villain!
Yes. I am.
And much worse.
Begging your apologies.
I was merely returning
the young man his sword.
I...
I would like to ask the young
lady if I may compete.
Another suitor?
With the queen's
permission. of course.
We need no more suitors!
I will--
The courtesy of
my husband's house
is much diminished
as of late.
You may compete.
And I pray you might
restore what has been lost.
Only Odysseus can put an
arrow through those axe blades.
So. let's see how good you are.
Good.
Clever.
Clever is better than good.
It's a farce!
He can't even keep the
arrow straight. my queen.
Best keep your eye
on the target. old man.
So. only Odysseus
himself can make this shot.
And I must be Odysseus.
But Odysseus is dead!
-No!
-Father!
You have overstayed your
welcome in my house too long!
Antinous!
You can leave on
your own accord.
Never!
This kingdom is mine!
Or you can go another way!
Death is too good for you.
Watch your tongue!
Or we will take it from you.
No!
My gods!
Help me!
Have mercy on me!
Here I am. monster!
I'll take everything
from you. Odysseus!
I will drown all of Ithaca.
drown your house.
and your family!
No! No!
Here I am! Here I am!
I'm the one you want!
Take me! Take me!
Father!
Odysseus?
Odysseus!
No!
What did he say to you. son?
Tell me!
Tell me quickly!
What were his
final words to you?
I don't understand!
Telemachus...
What were his final words?
He said. third gift.
Third gift?
And then...
And then nothing more.
So clever.
The king of Ithaca.
Clever to his last.
Oh. goddess Athena.
My love.
You have suffered
enough these past many days.
But the game's over.
Odysseus...
Wins.
What do you mean?
He didn't win.
He's dead.
He's gone!
Do not be troubled.
son of Odysseus.
Once again. your
father's glory honors me.
With his final breath.
your husband requested his
last wish.
May I grant it?
Yes.
Yes. please.
Clever is indeed
greater than good.
-Father!
-He's alive!
Goddess Athena. thank you.
It was your husband
who outsmarted death.
I am glad to see
you all reunited.
My son...
Oh. my son.
I was gone.
The goddess.
Athena has granted me
my third wish.
My father more clever
than the gods themselves.
The river Styx can wait...
But a moment longer.
Oh...
You took your time. old man.
The wind.
The wind was against me.
I have heard such stories.
You seem as if from a dream.
Are you really here?
Or are the gods
still playing games.
I have not the strength
for their sport any longer.
Nor do I.
Nor do I. my queen.
King of Ithaca. why have
you returned to this place?
I have but one goal.
One destination.
Not Ithaca. not this house.
not the crown was my goal.
I care not for the seas
or the skies.
I sought no monsters. nor gods.
I only sought you.
Only you.
You... You were the
safe harbor I fought
so desperately to get home to.
And home you will stay.
Yes. I will.
Home.
The only journey
worth the fight.
Home.
Home at last.
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-